README.md, before:

# MagicLinPwn
MagicLinPwn is a powerful and automated Linux privilege escalation script designed to help security professionals and CTF enthusiasts identify potential misconfigurations, vulnerabilities, and weaknesses that can lead to privilege escalation.

## Usage
```bash
./MagicLinPwn.sh
```

<br>

## Features

- **OS Information Gathering**:
  - Detects and displays the operating system, kernel version, architecture, and hostname.
- **User and Group Information**:
  - Displays the current user, UID, GID, primary group, and group memberships with line wrapping and highlighting for critical groups (e.g., `wheel`, `sudo`, `docker`, `lxd`).
- **Sudo Privileges Check**:
  - Checks if `sudo` is installed, displays the sudo version and if the user can execute `sudo` commands without a password.
  - Highlights critical configurations such as `ALL`, `NOPASSWD`, and `SETENV`.
- **SUID Binary Check**:
  - Finds and lists all binaries with the SUID bit set.
  - Highlights potentially dangerous binaries (e.g., interpreters like `bash` or `python`).
  - Includes a timeout mechanism to skip the check if it takes too long.
- **SGID Binary Check**:
  - Finds and lists all binaries with the SGID bit set.
  - Highlights potentially dangerous binaries (e.g., `mail`, `write`, `wall`).
  - Includes a timeout mechanism to skip the check if it takes too long.
- **Cron Job Analysis**:
  - **System-Wide Cron Jobs**: Lists cron jobs from `/etc/cron.d` and their contents.
  - **User-Specific Cron Jobs**: Checks the current user’s crontab for entries.
  - **/etc/crontab Analysis**: Displays the contents of `/etc/crontab` and checks if it is writable.
  - **Writable Cron Files**: Identifies writable cron files across `/etc/cron*` directories and highlights potential security risks.
- **Capabilities Check**:
  - Finds and lists all files with Linux capabilities.
  - Highlights potentially dangerous capabilities (e.g., `cap_setuid`, `cap_net_raw`, `cap_dac_override`).
  - Includes a timeout mechanism to skip the check if it takes too long.
- **Writable Critical Files and Directories Check**:
  - Checks critical system files (e.g., `/etc/passwd`, `/etc/shadow`, `/etc/sudoers`) for write permissions.
  - Checks critical directories (e.g., `/etc/sudoers.d`, `/etc/cron.d`) for write permissions and scans for writable files within them.
  - Highlights writable files and directories as potential security risks.
  - Provides clear summary messages when no writable files or directories are detected.
- **Potentially Interesting Files Search**:
  - Searches for files with potentially sensitive extensions (e.g., `.xls`, `.doc`, `.pdf`, `.conf`, `.key`).
  - Excludes common irrelevant directories like `lib`, `fonts`, `share`, and `core`.
  - Displays results clearly for each file extension.
  - Handles cases where no files are found with a clean message.
- **Sensitive Content Search**:
  - Searches `.cnf`, `.conf`, and `.config` files for sensitive keywords like `password` or `pass`.
  - Excludes unnecessary directories (e.g., `doc`, `lib`) to reduce noise.
  - Highlights matches for better readability.
  - Only displays filenames and content when matches are found.
- **SSH Private Key Search**:
  - Searches common directories like `/root`, `/home`, and `/etc/ssh` for files containing `PRIVATE KEY`.
  - Highlights private keys in the results for better visibility.
  - Filters out irrelevant matches, ensuring only valid keys are displayed.
  - Provides a clear message if no private keys are found.
- **Writable Files and Directories Check**:
  - Searches for files and directories writable by the current user.
  - Excludes system-critical paths like `/proc`, `/sys`, `/tmp`, and `/run` to avoid unnecessary output.
  - Displays both writable files and writable directories separately.
  - Includes a timeout mechanism to prevent the scan from running indefinitely.
  - Clearly indicates if no writable files or directories are found.

<br>

## Screenshots
![MagicLinPwn_demo](screenshots/demo.png)

Commit message:

add function to search and dump shell history files

README.md, after:

# MagicLinPwn
MagicLinPwn is a powerful and automated Linux privilege escalation script designed to help security professionals and CTF enthusiasts identify potential misconfigurations, vulnerabilities, and weaknesses that can lead to privilege escalation.

## Usage
```bash
./MagicLinPwn.sh
```

<br>

## Features

- **OS Information Gathering**:
  - Detects and displays the operating system, kernel version, architecture, and hostname.
- **User and Group Information**:
  - Displays the current user, UID, GID, primary group, and group memberships with line wrapping and highlighting for critical groups (e.g., `wheel`, `sudo`, `docker`, `lxd`).
- **Sudo Privileges Check**:
  - Checks if `sudo` is installed, displays the sudo version and if the user can execute `sudo` commands without a password.
  - Highlights critical configurations such as `ALL`, `NOPASSWD`, and `SETENV`.
- **SUID Binary Check**:
  - Finds and lists all binaries with the SUID bit set.
  - Highlights potentially dangerous binaries (e.g., interpreters like `bash` or `python`).
  - Includes a timeout mechanism to skip the check if it takes too long.
- **SGID Binary Check**:
  - Finds and lists all binaries with the SGID bit set.
  - Highlights potentially dangerous binaries (e.g., `mail`, `write`, `wall`).
  - Includes a timeout mechanism to skip the check if it takes too long.
- **Cron Job Analysis**:
  - **System-Wide Cron Jobs**: Lists cron jobs from `/etc/cron.d` and their contents.
  - **User-Specific Cron Jobs**: Checks the current user’s crontab for entries.
  - **/etc/crontab Analysis**: Displays the contents of `/etc/crontab` and checks if it is writable.
  - **Writable Cron Files**: Identifies writable cron files across `/etc/cron*` directories and highlights potential security risks.
- **Capabilities Check**:
  - Finds and lists all files with Linux capabilities.
  - Highlights potentially dangerous capabilities (e.g., `cap_setuid`, `cap_net_raw`, `cap_dac_override`).
  - Includes a timeout mechanism to skip the check if it takes too long.
- **Writable Critical Files and Directories Check**:
  - Checks critical system files (e.g., `/etc/passwd`, `/etc/shadow`, `/etc/sudoers`) for write permissions.
  - Checks critical directories (e.g., `/etc/sudoers.d`, `/etc/cron.d`) for write permissions and scans for writable files within them.
  - Highlights writable files and directories as potential security risks.
  - Provides clear summary messages when no writable files or directories are detected.
- **Potentially Interesting Files Search**:
  - Searches for files with potentially sensitive extensions (e.g., `.xls`, `.doc`, `.pdf`, `.conf`, `.key`).
  - Excludes common irrelevant directories like `lib`, `fonts`, `share`, and `core`.
  - Displays results clearly for each file extension.
  - Handles cases where no files are found with a clean message.
- **Sensitive Content Search**:
  - Searches `.cnf`, `.conf`, and `.config` files for sensitive keywords like `password` or `pass`.
  - Excludes unnecessary directories (e.g., `doc`, `lib`) to reduce noise.
  - Highlights matches for better readability.
  - Only displays filenames and content when matches are found.
- **SSH Private Key Search**:
  - Searches common directories like `/root`, `/home`, and `/etc/ssh` for files containing `PRIVATE KEY`.
  - Highlights private keys in the results for better visibility.
  - Filters out irrelevant matches, ensuring only valid keys are displayed.
  - Provides a clear message if no private keys are found.
- **Shell History File Dump**:
  - Searches for commonly used shell history files (e.g., `.bash_history`, `.zsh_history`, `.ash_history`, etc.) in `/home` and `/root` directories.
  - Dumps the contents of any accessible history files for analysis.
  - Highlights the file paths and their contents, providing insights into commands executed by users.
  - Clearly indicates if no history files are found or accessible.
- **Writable Files and Directories Check**:
  - Searches for files and directories writable by the current user.
  - Excludes system-critical paths like `/proc`, `/sys`, `/tmp`, and `/run` to avoid unnecessary output.
  - Displays both writable files and writable directories separately.
  - Includes a timeout mechanism to prevent the scan from running indefinitely.
  - Clearly indicates if no writable files or directories are found.

<br>

## Screenshots
![MagicLinPwn_demo](screenshots/demo.png)
